#summary Informal summary of differences between versions.
#labels Featured

= QBoard ChangeLog =

This is the informal ChangeLog for the QBoard project. Newest items
are at the top. Dates written extra large are release dates.

----
*2008 August 23:*

- Added new item type, QGIDot - a simple dot to place around the board.


*2008 August 22:*

- i can't seem to get QGIHtml to intercept Ctrl-C/X/V/Z properly, but i've changed it to show the text editor's popup menu when in editor mode, so it's still possible to copy/cut/paste from there.

- Pieces can now have child objects. When a parent is moved, the children move relative to it. A child may also be dragged around independently. This can currently be used to attach QGIHtml objects to pieces, such that the QGIHtml will follow the piece around. There will be other uses at some point. TODO: draw lines between parent and children (i tried it, the lines only show up in GL mode).

- A few minor touch-ups.

- QGIPiece now uses a cache for its rendering options, which saves tons of redrawing (but also introduced 5+ hours of debugging the finer details of getting the borders to draw properly in the face of tiny rounding errors).

- Seem to have gotten rid of the "paint streaks" that happened when dragging pieces with larger border sizes.

*2008 August 21:*

- _*Fixed a very significant memory leak*_ in the menu handlers. One of them
was leaking like a sieve before.

- Pieces and HTML widgets can now be scaled independently of the board.
Now we can scale down larger piece graphics for use with game boards which have small hexes :). (Well, i've had that problem, anyway.)

- We can now copy ANY s11n-serializable type to a QVariant :), via a simple
proxy type.


=== *2008 August 20:* ===

- The popup menus have been more unified. e.g. using Rotate will now
rotate all selected objects which support that property, instead of all
objects of the same type as the selected object.

- Started removing the split-brain GamePiece/QGIGamePiece combination
with a single object, QGIPiece. This allows me to remove several ugly workarounds
in places which shouldn't have them. Older saved files will (should) still load,
but new save files will have a slightly different structure.

- More cleanups in the positioning of pasted data.

- In theory older versions of QBoard can still load the newer saved data, but
there's no guaranty.


*2008 August 19:*

- Significant improvements in copy/paste, including:

  * Ctrl-C/Ctrl-X/Ctrl-V do the conventional things. Copy/cut requires that the board have at least one selected item.
  * Pasting with the mouse over the board will paste to that board position, otherwise it will try to restore the original position where the data was copied/cut from.

- Added underlying support to allow libs11n to (indirectly) use QIODevices as input/output source/targets. That means we can serialize directly to or from, e.g. QFile or QBuffer.


*2008 August 17:*

- QGIHtml (the on-board text widgets) can now be rotated.

- Improved pasting a bit. e.g.
  * pasted objects are now selected by default, since the most common action after a paste is adjusting the position of the group.
  * Can now paste more types of data into the game (namely GamePiece, QBoard, and Serializable QGraphicsItems).

- Clipboard is now better synchronized with the global Qt/X11 clipboard.


=== *2008 August 16:* ===

- Added s11n support for QMap, plus QByteArray and QPixmap with compression.


*2008 August 15:*

- Added quicksave/quickload (Alt-S and Alt-L), which save/load to/from a predefined game file.

- Added ability to serialize QDate, QTime, and QDateTime properties.

- The "Clear board" action now leaves the underlying board graphic intact. This was an accident, but i like it better this way, so it stays.

- Fixed: board view now updates properly when a new board graphic is loaded. That is,
one no longer has to scroll the board to get the new image to show up.

- Added "Help" context menu item to some in-game objects.

- Copy/cut/paste is basically working. On-board lines don't paste in the proper location, but that's part of a bigger problem. Unfortunately, we can't currently bind keyboard shortcuts to copy/cut/paste because where those are caught we don't have access to the necessary widgets to initiate the copy/paste.

*2008 August 13:*

- Added a "placemarker" to the board. Pieces loaded via double-clicking
in the file browser will be set to the placemarker's position. To move
the placemarker, middle-click the board or drag the placemarker around.

- Added basic skeleton code for plugins support, using Qt's plugins framework.
It's not well integrated yet (you can't select plugins to open), but i was able
to load a plugin which had compiled-in PNG files (as resources), and was able
to use those resources as pixmap sources for in-play pieces. So the basics
seem to work, anyway.


=== *2008 August 11:* ===

- Added "piece templates" to the main UI. The appearance of the
currently-selected template is used as the basis when loading piece
graphics from files. All changed made to the piece templates are
persistant across QBoard sessions.

- Fixed the mis-scaling of boards in Qt 4.3.

- Minimaps now keep their scale when a new board is loaded.

- Added basic support for locking a piece's position (simply disables dragging for the piece).


*2008 August 9:*

- Corrected several compile warnings caught by gcc 4.2.3.

=== *2008 June 15:* ===

- Fixed a major bug under Qt 4.3 which caused non-piece gameboard items
to be not removed. The end effect was duplicate or extra items at
load-time.

- The main app can now process .qbbatch script files (the same files
read by qboardbatch).


*2008 June 14:*

- Fixed the broken app icons for qt 4.3. This was caused by an inconsistency
in how Qt Designer 4.3/4.4 handle icons associated with QActions.

- Too many little changes to remember.

- Added initial copy/cut support.  Paste is on the todo list, but
pasting is inherently target- and source-specific, so that'll take a
bit of work.

- Board now has a popup menu with a couple options. You wouldn't believe
what a bitch it was to get the event handling right in conjunction with
overlapping pieces and the board.


=== *2008 June 13:* ===

- Initial release via Google Code.