#summary Overview of available gamesets
#labels Featured

= QBoard gamesets =

A "gameset", in the context of QBoard, is simply a collection of graphics and/or
text files for use with a specific game. They are normally put into a directory
of their own, and this directory lives under the QBoard home directory.
QBoard places no inherent limitations on the directory structure of a gameset or the names of its files.


= Creating your own sets =

Creating gamesets is trivial - you simply need some graphics and/or text/html files for content. Take a look at the above sets below to see a few possible ways to structure sets.
QBoard is very free-form and will allow you to use any directory structure you like. A set with only a few graphics might just put them all in one directory. A set with 20 different types of pieces might break then down by category or team team, for example.

If you want the QBoard GUI to show you a custom icon for a given directory, put a small PNG-format icon file named `.diricon.png` in that directory. QBoard's file list will then show that icon instead of a folder icon. QBoard does not show files with a leading period in their name, so this file will not show up in the QBoard file browser.

= Available sets =

Below are short descriptions of the gamesets released via the downloads page. To
install a given gameset, simply unpack it to your QBoard home directory.

== !BattleTech(tm) and friends ==

This set includes lots of pieces (but no maps) compatible with the [http://www.classicbattletech.com/ BattleTech line of games]. They can also be used for other games with mecha, of course.
You can actually find many !BattleTech maps in PDF format at:

[http://www.classicbattletech.com/index.php?action=downloads]

Search that page for "map". But you'll need to extract them from the PDFs before using them with QBoard (their license doesn't allow us to redistribute them here).


== Hex ==

Hex is a very simple strategy game for two players, with a whopping 1 paragraph
of rules. Each player places tokens on a hexagon-based board and attempts to
connect to the far side, blocking his opponent as he goes.

== CGME Joe ==

*Joe* is a simple strategy combat game where little plastic army men
do combat on a chessboard. Joe is an original title, by yours truly.
It can be learned and played in under half an hour, and should be flexible
enough to support a variety of play styles and options.

== Ogre(tm) and G.E.V.(tm) ==

[http://sjgames.com/ogre/ Ogre and G.E.V.] are classic sci-fi strategy games
by [http://sjgames.com Steve Jackson] depicting armored combat in near-future
nuclear battlefields. This set includes a compilation of maps and playing pieces
(some "official", some not) for use with those games. The maps were originally
distributed as part of the V_MAP Ogre gameset, but V_MAP has long been defunct.
The pieces come in two forms:

  * The V_MAP set: 35x35-pixel (small) pieces from the venerable V_MAP set, created by Todd Zircher (author of V_MAP).
  * The "Cisco" set: 48x48-pixel (1/2 inch) pieces created by Francisco "Cisco" Cestero, originally intended as printable replacements for the official game counters. These counters are larger than the hexes on the supplied maps, but can be used on custom maps or printed out.

While QBoard won't stop you from using those two sets together, they use
different graphics styles and scales, so interchanging them is not recommended. (One notable exception is that the Cisco Ogre counters might be appropriate for use with the V_MAP sets.)

The counters all come in the classical black-on-white and white-on-black combinations, plus with black and white on transparent backgrounds, so one can use custom background colors and translucency.