#summary Getting started with QBoard
= HOWTO: getting started with QBoard =

This guide gives a brief overview of how to get started with QBoard.

== QBoard Home Directory ==


To allow us to save relative paths in our data files, we need a common root directory which is portable across platforms. To that end, we request that you store all QBoard-related data files under the QBoard home directory (`~/.QBoard`). QBoard tries its best to make sure you stay inside the home directory. For example, when loading graphics files for pieces and boards, it uses a path relative to the home, if possible, as this makes the saved data portable to other machines (or if the QBoard home dir changes). 

== Graphics Files ==

Before getting started with QBoard, you will need to put some files in the home dir, namely:

   * Graphics for boards.
   * Graphics for pieces.
   * Any .txt or .html files you may want to load from within QBoard.

You may structure your data however you like under the home directory, with the
exception that the subdirectory named `QBoard` is reserved for use with
QBoard-specific application data.


== Loading Files ==

  * Double-clicking an image file will load it as a game board (if it is bigger than 10KB) or a game piece (if it is smaller).
  * Double-clicking on files named .GameState, .QBoard, or .QBoardPiece will load a game, a board, or a piece. The same happens when using the Open File menu/button.
  * Double-clicking a .txt or .html file will open it in a browser (only when compiled against Qt 4.4!).


== Saving ==

  * To save a game, click the Save button or File->Save menu item. That will save the entire game state.
  * It is in principal possible to save any in-game object individually (e.g. individual pieces or JUST the board, without the pieces), but there is currently no UI for doing so.
