#summary Main page
#labels Featured

= Welcome to QBoard =


QBoard is a UI for playing near-arbitrary board games. It is mainly intended as
a prototyping platform for testing/playing my own boardgame designs.

QBoard is a "re-imagining" of a much older project of mine called
[http://qub.sourceforge.net|QUB, the Q Universal Boardgame]. QUB was quite monolithic, and its sheer size eventually caused its downfall. While QBoard originally aimed to be a fairly minimalistic application, Qt makes it pretty easy to just keep adding features, so QBoard already does a lot more than was originally planned.

== Screenshots ==

You can find screenshots on the [Screenshots screenshots page].

== Features ==

  * A simple interface for quickly setting up and playing a boardgame.
  * Has powerful and flexible save and load features, making it easy to add load/save support for new data types.
  * Get right to playing - there is no tedious separate setup of "gameset" and "scenario" files, as there is in, e.g., [http://cyberboard.brainiac.com/ CyberBoard] (arguably the most well-known application in this category).
  * As QBoard has only a fluid concept of what a "game" is, it is possible to mix and match pieces from arbitrary [Gamesets] in the same session.
  * A zoomable, rotatable playing area (game board + pieces).
  * Full control over game piece background colors, transparency, rotation, and border (color, transparency, size, line style). Finally: translucent game pieces!
  * Supports an arbitrary number of dockable "minimap" views, all fully interactive and synchronized in real time.
  * On-board HTML widgets, so you can annotate your game as much as you like. You can also attach HTML widgets directly to arbitrary game pieces.
  * On-board lines, with customizable colors, line size, and transparency level. Useful for marking movement paths (or histories), firing ranges or arcs, line of sight, and such.
  * JavaScript bindings are in the works. The basic stuff works, but this work ongoing.

See also: the [TODOs] Page


== Requirements ==

  * Patience. It's beta software.
  * Qt 4.3.x or 4.4.x with STL support enabled and optionally with OpenGL. QBoard seems to work with Qt 4.3.0-4.3.5, but sometimes shows some significantly weird behaviours which don't show up on 4.4.
  * Platforms: it tries to be platform-independent, and it "should" work on any Qt platform which supports all the big Qt features (e.g. QWebKit, STL, etc.). i would love to hear from anyone who tries it on non-Linux platforms.
  * Some graphics which you can use as game boards and playing pieces. We've got some free gaming maps at http://wanderinghorse.net/gaming/maps and free counters (playing pieces) at http://wanderinghorse.net/gaming/counters.
  * [http://s11n.net libs11n] 1.2.7+. It comes with a standalone copy of s11n, so you don't need to download it. (A copy is used because libs11n can't work as a DLL on Windows due to broken linking conventions on those platforms, so we have to compile it directly in.) s11n requires a fairly recent C++ compiler - gcc 4.1+ are believed to be okay, as are newer MS compilers.


== Development Status ==

QBoard is very much beta software. It runs fine, but some important
features are as yet unimplemented, and some other things will probably
change significantly over time. QBoard is not a project which aims to ever have a "1.0" release, and to that end it uses the release date, in YYYYMMDD format, as a version number.

The copy of the source code in Subversion may or may not work at any given
moment (normally it does, though). Occasionally it reaches a point where we say, "it works! Ship it!" Those are the "official" releases (available via the
downloads link), and are _believed_ to be free of major defects
(e.g. crashes or other data loss).

That said - there will be times when a release is not strictly backwards-compatible (i.e. cannot read all data written with an earlier version). This will probably be minimal, however, because the i/o layer allows us to easily support multiple versions of an object's i/o format in many cases. There are *never* any guarantees that an older version of QBoard can read all data written by a newer version.